README for f-dirprecheck-v1.1

The pre_dir_check script is an essential part of any good glftpd configuration:
It will check directory names on mkdiring and by blocking stupid attempts keeps
the site clean.

As a pre_dir_script is run on each mkdir on the ftp site, it must be very fast,
as to not hinder performance. But at the same time powerful enough to allow
detailed customization. This is script is a trade-off between the two:
It has three check stages:

  o  The to-be-mkdired dir must not be in NUKED-XYZ format.

  o  Check the current dated daydir and some days back if a dir of same name or
     nuked-name exists. This will efficiently _stop_ reuploading of once-nuked
     dirs.
     The script supports two day-dir formats YYYY-MM-DD and MMDD. No need for
     special configing: If the dir in which the mkdir happens is not a daydir
     of those two format, the backwards checks are skipped.

  o  Third is a set of siteop-specified rules: 
     Each consists of three regular expressions (see "man 7 regex" if you do
     not know what this is).

     The first pattern is the most potent. It is matched against the directory
     which is attempted to mkdir.

     Second one must match the mkdir's parent path. This is used to select which
     sections the match applies to.

     Third one _must_not_ match the mkdir's parent path. Use this to ignore
     private dirs or pre dirs.
     
     The matchtype-field describes the match's logic: A rule is only taken into
     account, if the parent path patterns match. Then the mkdir-pattern is
     applied: depending on the matchtype it either _must_ match, thereby
     creating an inclusive-check, or it _must_not_ match, thereby creating a
     ban.
     
     Last field is a nice message to display if a match fails.

One function not included in this dirprescript is scanning the dirlog. I found
this to be too slow if it is big. A backwards-check in the last few days is
sufficient.

The regular expressions in the rules are tested by the regextest.c program. It
is not installed. Only there to catch regex-syntax errors before they go live.

Have Fun F

f-dirprecheck--release--1.1 2005-10-30

INSTALLATION GUIDE

For how to config and compile the program see f-README

For glftpd.conf:

pre_dir_check   /bin/f-dirprecheck              *

Changelog:

v1.1
- Added cross-section checking for multi-section site so that a rls cannot be
  in uploaded in two sections at once.
- Prevent mkdir of a directory with the same name as its parent. Deep annoying
  paths like ABC/ABC/ABC/ cannot be created.
- Disallow all dirs starting with (incomplete)-.
- Fixed regextest for NULL regex patterns
- Added debugging output

v1.1.1 ( |k )
- Added support to check a redis database if a release was already nuked on the site
- Added import_nuke.c for using it to import the nukelog to a redis database (use glutil -n -print {dir} in conjunction with import_nuke.c)
